**SETUP Inside Folder Project**

Start an empty init npm project without going through an interactive process. The -y stands for yes.

    npm init -y

Create a GH repository with the same name project's directory

    git init

add node_modules/ to your .gitignore

    code .gitignore

**SETUP Sequelize**

## 1. To install Sequelize and it's CLI (Command Line tools) :

`npm i sequelize sequelize-cli`

## 2. Install the client library, in this case pg packge:

`npm i pg`

## 3. To setup sequelize for use inside your project run:

`npx sequelize-cli init`

## 4. CONNECTING to the database

4.1. Create a new PostgresSQL instance in ElephantSQL and you have the connection information for it.

4.2. Head to the 'config folder' and open the 'config.json'
This file has 3 objects each one is one database (ig projects developers usually set up several databases)

Replace the 'development' object with the code below:

    "development": {
        "url": "postgres://qmcrwizb:..."
      },

## 5. Open a client Database (dbeaver or baakeeper) and connect/add database. Obs: use your ElephantSQL connection key

## 6. CHECKING if Sequelize can connect to postgres:

`npx sequelize-cli db:migrate`

No changing on database. If everything went ok we should see a message like:

      Sequelize CLI [Node: 10.17.0, ...]
      Loaded configuration file "config/config.json".
      Using enviroment "development".
      No migrations were executed, database schema was already up to date.

## 7. SET sequelize configs in models/index.js CHANGE line 15 to:

        sequelize = new Sequelize(config.url, config); //line 15 changed

So we tell sequelize to use our url config when querying the data through the models.

## 8. COMMIT and PUSH to Git and GH:

        git commit -m "first commit. database connected. setup done."

        git push

---SETUP DONE---
